Responses to challenges are heavily dictated by personal values. Values
are individually internalized attitudes about what is right, wrong, ethical,
and moral. They heavily influence perceptions of problems and preferences.
Challenges often lack simplistic answers, and an internal code of
ethics determines how power is exercised. The Congruence Gravity Model
explains this simply. First, you have values. Second, you have
beliefs. Third, you have actions. When thoughts, feelings, and behaviors
align with genuineness and honesty towards others, congruence is achieved.
Congruence grounds leadership in values, provides stability for the team,
allows others to predict actions, and fundamentally builds shared trust.